## World Origins 

The world began as a wish between eternal beings; a wish to create something together, to show their love to each other in the form of living, breathing existence. So, the [[The Primordials|Aether and the Nether]] borne from [[the Abyss]] a world all their own.

Each river, every valley, from the mountaintops to the valley floor was created by one for the other. They built their world with love, bleeding it into even the smallest blade of grass. The Void watched happily, created the Moons, the Sun, and the Stars to illuminate their world.

Soon there was a need for people to inhabit this world, so the Aether bore from the earth itself the very first beings - the [[Fae|Fae]]. They were gifted language and sentience and left to explore and love and grow. They established cities and societies, built cultures and traditions. They [[Labyrinthine Greens|built their own world]] to fit their needs all under the watchful eyes of their creators. 

Wanting their own creatures, seeing the success of the Fae, the Nether created the [[Dragons]]. They, similar to the Fae, created [[Kisnicanzadantis|their own world]] to fit their needs. 

And then, the Aether and the Nether placed magic into the world. 

From this action, the [[Spigots]] were created - referred to as 'faucets' through which magic is funneled into the world at large. Each Spigot then birthed a [[the Council|God]], who would become one of the original Nine Gods of Tirras Savehys. These Gods stayed as strange essences until the Aether and Nether created the [[Astral Plane]] for them to inhabit. There they took on physical form (which would later be used as blueprints for the races). 

It was also during this time that the Council was formed, as more and more Lesser Gods were being formed from the belief of the new races and there was desperate need for some type of governing body to keep all these entities in check. 

The new races would eventually cause a tiff between them and the old races until the Void stepped in and punished them by casting the Nyortin into the [[Labyrinthine Greens]] and the Dragons to [[Kisnicanzadantis]], not allowing them to leave these lands without being [[Wandering Essence|disintegrated]]. This punishment would be the lead cause of the [[The Splintering|Splintering]].

## The Neornian Empire

The Neornian Empire rose at the tail end of the Splintering. 