*1E 0D - 1E 707D*

The Era of Dawning is the first and era that took place directly after the [[Great Catastrophe]]. Many of its events centered around rebuilding what little was left of the world, rediscovering old cities and villages, and unearthing places of old. The roads and bridges and highways that the [[Ancient Kingdom]] had built during their reign had been destroyed, and during the very early years of the Dawning, reestablishing these trade routes were of the utmost importance. 

This era takes places from the time directly after the Catastrophe to the [[Arcane Explosion]], approx. 700 years.

The discovery of [[Spigots]] was also a hallmark of this era, especially in the case of [[Lake Ailmed]] where agriculture flourished once the application of the lake's arcane infused waters were utilized. And while the origins and original purpose for these locations was not studied beyond the few who took an interest, their usefulness (or danger) was well logged and spoken about. 

The cities that remained enough to be rebuilt (and still contain parts of them that existed beyond the Great Catastrophe) are: 
	[[Edelsburg]]
	[[To'Shur]]
	[[Polno Pos]]
	[[Frieburn]]

In the realm of the Gods, this era saw the reconvening of the [[The Council|Council]], as the 'grand reset' of the world reverted the Gods back to their original states and their original locations (a thing not thought possible by the deities). The absence of [[Fhewhas|one particular God]] was cause for much discussion and confusion amidst the Nine, and those Lesser Gods that were held under his domain.