The Neorn are an race of near-elves that were ruled extinct after the [[Great Catastrophe]] that reset the world back to its beginnings. It would later be discovered that their race lived on in the [[Oudinnen]]. Their spigot is the [[Myoh Lake Oasis]] and their patron God [[Fhewhas]]. 
## Neornian Empire

After [[The Splintering]], with the Old Races sequestered away, the New Races were able to flourish. Most notably, the Neornian people expanded their influence first across their Eastern Continent, and then beyond to the world as a whole.

While the Neorn started as a collection of small villages, the settled of Kyrd starts to expand and merge with the surrounding towns. The prevailing theory is the proximity to the [[Myoh Lake Oasis]] Spigot gave these Neorn a particular affinity for charisma and thought manipulation. Thus they were able to convince even the most isolationist groups to join their cause. Over the course of twenty years, fourteen local peoples were folded into the Kyrdist group until the renamed themselves the Grandorian Empire. 

Unbeknownst to the Neornian people, this was actually entirely a ploy by [[Fhewhas]] to begin his overall plan to deploy a coup on [[The Council]] and reign Supreme. At this point in time, God/Mortal couplings were permitted (if uncommon) and there were many occurrences of [[Demigods]] in existence. This was especially prevalent among the Neorn, with Fhewhas desperate for an heir to vesselize. 

The Kyrdist movement marched south until they reached the sea at the other end, a task that took close to seventy years. After that, they sailed west across the [[Starling Sea]] and quickly overtook and annexed the many city-states and smaller, splintered countries. They were brought under the umbrella of the Grandorian Empire, including their culture and their language. They fostered truces with the neighboring [[Fae]] to the northeast and the [[Dragons]] upon reaching 'the ends'. This also brought the newly discovered [[Laissen]] race to the Main Continent, who were then referred to as the 'Dragon People'. These people would swiftly move across the continent and become an assimilated race.

The Grandorian Empire would reign for approximately 1300 years, completely altering the landscape of the world and bringing it close to something of a homogenous culture. Magic, technology, and science had become a synchronous, well-oiled machine, working together to create a utopic world. There were self-driving carriages, country spanning trains, teleporters, floating cities, near perfect medicine, and much more. (These top breakthroughs, however, were often exclusive to the Neorn and those high ranking in the Empire). 

The other Gods were kept in the dark about the actions of Fhewhas, as most Gods dealt with their sphere and Spigot and nothing beyond that (something that would change after the [[Great Catastrophe]]). They tended to be very 'local', and were mainly known and worshipped by those in their region. Many often stayed in the [[Astral Plane]], save for [[Mahys]] and [[Styvel]] who worked closely with mortals to usher their deaths calmly into the [[Echo Lands]]. 

[[Layleth]] was the last of the Grandorian Emperors, who grew jealous of her demi-god children being favored by Fhewhas. She devised a plan to murder him and usurp the place of 'God'. She gained the [[Seraph's Bane]] from the [[Devils]] but her plan was thwarted, resulting in the [[Great Catastrophe|utter destruction of the world]]. 